docs: Fivetran Destination User Docs (for Fivetran) (#25750)
MaterializeInc/materialize: doc/third-party/fivetran/setup-guide.md

---
name: Setup Guide
title: Materialize Setup Guide
description: Follow the guide to set up Materialize as a destination.
---

# Materialize Setup Guide {% badge text="Partner-Built" /%} {% badge text="Private Preview" /%}

Follow the setup guide to connect Materialize to Fivetran.

> > NOTE: This destination is [partner-built](/docs/partner-built-program). For any questions related to Materialize destination and its documentation, contact [Materialize Support](mailto:support@materialize.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> NOTE: This destination is [partner-built](/docs/partner-built-program). For any questions related to the Materialize destination and its documentation, contact the [Materialize team](mailto:support@materialize.com).
```

---

## Prerequisites

To connect Materialize to Fivetran, you need the following:

> - A Materialize account with `CREATE` privileges on the database you're connecting to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Materialize account. If you already have one — great! If not, [sign up for a playground account](https://materialize.com/register/) first.
```

Reviewer: It feels like the wrong place to mention the `CREATE` privilege requirement!

Author: Makes sense, updated!

- A Fivetran account with [permission to add destinations](/docs/using-fivetran/fivetran-dashboard/account-management/role-based-access-control#legacyandnewrbacmodel).

---

## Setup instructions

### <span class="step-item"> Get Materialize credentials </span> 

> You must have a Materialize account with `CREATE` privileges on the database you're connecting to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user you're using to connect to Fivetran must have [`CREATE`](https://materialize.com/docs/manage/access-control/rbac/#privileges) privileges on the target database in Materialize.
```

Author: Updated!

> 1. Login to the [Materialize Console](https://console.materialize.com) with your account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to your [Materialize account](https://console.materialize.com).
```

> The user you're using to connect to Fivetran must have [`CREATE`](https://materialize.com/docs/manage/access-control/rbac/#privileges) privileges on the target database in Materialize.

Reviewer 2: Ideally we'd recommend users create a service account in Materialize for this vs using their personal account, but I just looked in our docs and we don't have anything on creating service accounts.

@morsapaes is that something we should put in the Materialize docs, a best practice guide around creating dedicated service accounts for integrations?

That shouldn't block these docs, since it applies to all integrations and we should have a dedicated landing page on it first. Don't want to slow people down in getting set up for the first time.

Author: That makes sense to me! I'm going to merge as-is and send them over to Fivetran to unblock them, we can always update if need be!

2. Click "Connect externally" at the bottom of the sidebar.
3. On the "External tools" tab, click "Create app password". 

> 4. Copy the generated **password**, **Host**, and **User** somewhere safe, we'll use these soon!

Reviewer 2: It would be great to encourage users to name their app password. See thread https://materializeinc.slack.com/archives/C06GZ7GBKB5/p1709593485646289 on how users can do that now.

Reviewer: Not sure we should ask users to copy these, or just state that this is where to find the connection details you'll need in Step 2. The password is the only thing they need to store somewhere safe for later use.

Author: More than happy to re-word this, but copying them seemed like the easiest thing?

### <span class="step-item">Finish Fivetran configuration </span>

1. Log in to your Fivetran account.

> 2. Go to the [**Destinations** page](https://fivetran.com/dashboard/destinations), and then click **+ Add Destination**.

Reviewer 2: I know you copied this from the example, but the **Add Destination** button doesn't actually have a "+" anywhere, not sure why the example wrote it that way.

3. Enter a **Destination name** of your choice.
4. Click **Add**.
5. Select **Materialize** as the destination type.
6. Enter the **Host**, **User**, and **App password** you copied in Step 1.

> 7. Enter the **Database** you would like to connect to and have `CREATE` permissions for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Enter the **Database** you would like to connect to. As a reminder, the user specified in the previous step must have `CREATE` privileges on this database.
```

7. Choose the **Data processing location**.
8. Choose your **Time zone**.
9. Click **Save & Test**.

> Fivetran [tests and validates](/docs/destinations/materialize/setup-guide#setuptest) the Materialize connection. On successful completion of the setup test, you can sync your data using Fivetran connectors to the Materialize destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fivetran will [test and validate](/docs/destinations/materialize/setup-guide#setuptest) the connection to Materialize. On successful completion of the setup test, you can sync your data using Fivetran connectors to the Materialize destination.
```

Reviewer: If you haven't granted the required privileges on the target database, is the error straightforward? Is there a way to extend connection validation to include privilege validation, in the future?

Author: Connection validation already includes a privilege check, and from what I remember the error is pretty straight forward, it reports that you don't have privileges

### Setup test

Fivetran performs the following Materialize connection test:

> - The Connection test checks if we can connect to your Materialize account through the API using the Host, User, and App password you provided in the setup form.

Reviewer: Assuming this is part of the template, but it's kind of an awkward section to end with. Could we merge it with the previous section, or move the immediate paragraph before this section here?

Author: I merged the two, let me know what you think!
